(doc) Basic Intune documentation (#215)
chocolatey/docs: input/en-us/third-party-integrations/intune/create-azure-ad-application.md

---
Order: 10
xref: create-azure-ad-application
Title: Create an Azure AD Application
Description: Information about creating an application in Azure AD for Chocolatey to access the Intune APIs.
---

<?! Include "../../../shared/intune-note.txt" /?>

## Summary

> In order to use Chocolatey with Intune integration, you must first create an Azure AD Application that will be used to authenticate with Microsoft Graph API.
> 
> The below instructions are based upon Microsoft's information [here](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/auth-v2-service).
> The instructions and all screenshots are current as of July 2021.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To allow Chocolatey to access the Intune tenant and work with packages, a user with the Global Administrator or Privileged Role Administrator permissions must create an Azure AD Application in your Azure tenant. See the [Microsoft Graph API documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/auth-v2-service) for further information.
 
_The steps and screenshots below are current as of July 2021._
```

## Create Azure AD Application

1. Log into [AzureAD Portal](https://aad.portal.azure.com/).
1. Navigate to **App registrations** in Azure Active Directory.
![AzureAD Application Registration position](/assets/images/intune/app-registration.png)
1. Click **New Registration**.
![New Registration](/assets/images/intune/new-registration.png)
1. Provide a name for your application and leave the rest of the fields blank/default.
1. Click **Register**.
1. Select **API permissions** from the menu on the left.
![API Permissions](/assets/images/intune/api-permissions.png)
1. Click the three dots for the menu on **User.Read**, choose **Remove Permissions**, and confirm you want to remove the permissions.
![Remove Existing Permissions](/assets/images/intune/remove-existing-permissions.png)
1. Click **Add a permission**.
1. Select **Microsoft Graph**.
![Select Microsoft Graph](/assets/images/intune/select-graph.png)
1. Select **Application permissions**.
![Select Application Permissions](/assets/images/intune/select-application-permissions.png)

> 1. Search for device expand **DeviceManagementApps** and check off **DeviceManagementApps.ReadWrite.All**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Search for device and expand **DeviceManagementApps** and check off **DeviceManagementApps.ReadWrite.All**.

```

![Select DeviceManagementApps.ReadWrite.All](/assets/images/intune/select-device-apps-read-write.png)

> 1. Click Add permissions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Click **Add permissions**.
```

1. Click **Grant admin consent for &lt;tenant&gt;** followed by **Yes** when prompted.
![Grant Admin Consent for your domain](/assets/images/intune/grant-admin-consent.png)

## Create a secret for your Azure AD Application

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

> :warning: **WARNING**
> 
> It's important to note down the secret generated below as you cannot retrieve it again. If you forget the secret you will need to generate another one.

```

Once you’ve created your AzureAD Application, you need to generate a secret for it.

> The secret is what Chocolatey will use to authenticate with Microsoft Graph and should be protected like any other password.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The secret is what Chocolatey will use to authenticate with the Microsoft Graph API and should be protected like any other password.
```

1. In the Application overview for your Application, select **Certificates & secrets**.
![Certificates & Secrets](/assets/images/intune/certificates-and-secrets.png)

> 1. Under Client secrets select **New client secret**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Under **Client secrets** select **New client secret**.
```

![New client secret](/assets/images/intune/new-client-secret.png)

> 1. (Optional) Provide a description for this client secret and provide an expiry for the secret.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. (Optional) Provide a description and expiry date for the client secret.
```

![Add a client secret](/assets/images/intune/add-client-secret.png)

> 1. Click Add.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Click **Add**.
```

> 1. Note the Value (it will not be shown again, so be sure to save it or you will need to generate another secret).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Note the **Value** down (_it will not be shown again, so be sure to save it or you will need to generate another secret_).
```

## Obtaining and using your AzureAD Application information with Chocolatey

> Once you’ve created the AzureAD Application and generated a secret for it, you will want to obtain it and use it with Chocolatey.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you’ve created both the AzureAD Application and the secret, you will want to obtain the registration information to use it with Chocolatey. Complete the folllowing steps to do so:

```

1. Log into the **AzureAD Portal** and navigate to the **App registration** page for your application.
1. Here you will find your **Application (client) ID**, and your **Directory (tenant) ID**.
![Finding Application and Directory IDs](/assets/images/intune/get-app-information.png)

> 1. The **Application ID** is the value used when we talk about **client id**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. The **Application ID** is the value used when we talk about **TENANT CLIENT ID**.
```

Reviewer: This matches what we have when setting the api-key.

> 1. The **Directory ID** is the value used when we talk about **tenant id**. The Directory ID can be used as (note we recommend using the GUID for simplicity):
>   * A GUID, shown on this page, or 
>   * Your Microsoft Azure tenant (e.g. mytesttenant.onmicrosoft.com), or 
>   * Your FQDN if it’s configured in Azure (e.g. mytesttenant.com). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. The **Directory ID** is the GUID value used when we talk about **INTUNE TENANT GUID**.
```

Reviewer: This matches what we have when adding a source.

> 1. The **Secret** is the value used when we talk about **client secret**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. The **Secret** is the value used when we talk about **TENANT CLIENT SECRET**.
```

Reviewer: This matches what we have when setting the api-key.
